C# 9 reference update: lambda discard parameters (#20718)
dotnet/docs: docs/csharp/language-reference/operators/lambda-expressions.md

  
## Expression lambdas

> A lambda expression with an expression on the right side of the `=>` operator is called an *expression lambda*. An expression lambda returns the result of the expression and takes the following basic form:

Author: Removed that sentence as it breaks the flow of the paragraph; moreover, that information is mentioned earlier in the article.

```csharp
(input-parameters) => expression
```

The body of an expression lambda can consist of a method call. However, if you are creating [expression trees](../../programming-guide/concepts/expression-trees/index.md) that are evaluated outside the context of the .NET common language runtime, such as in SQL Server, you should not use method calls in lambda expressions. The methods will have no meaning outside the context of the .NET common language runtime.

## Statement lambdas

> A statement lambda resembles an expression lambda except that the statement(s) is enclosed in braces:

Author: @IEvangelist  Should it be "its statements" instead of "their"?

> A statement lambda resembles an expression lambda except that the statement(s) is enclosed in braces:

Reviewer: I'd be good with that, although I believe that using their in this context is fine too.

```csharp  
(input-parameters) => { <sequence-of-statements> }
```

The body of a statement lambda can consist of any number of statements; however, in practice there are typically no more than two or three.

[!code-csharp-interactive[statement lambda](snippets/lambda-expressions/ExpressionAndStatementLambdas.cs#StatementLambda)]

You cannot use statement lambdas to create expression trees.

> ## Input parameters of a lambda expression

Author: That information was inside the section about expression lambdas, while it's true for all lambdas. So, I've extracted the section.

You enclose input parameters of a lambda expression in parentheses. Specify zero input parameters with empty parentheses:  

[!code-csharp[zero parameters](snippets/lambda-expressions/ExpressionAndStatementLambdas.cs#ZeroParameters)]

If a lambda expression has only one input parameter, parentheses are optional:

[!code-csharp[one parameter](snippets/lambda-expressions/ExpressionAndStatementLambdas.cs#OneParameter)]

Two or more input parameters are separated by commas:

[!code-csharp[two parameters](snippets/lambda-expressions/ExpressionAndStatementLambdas.cs#TwoParameters)]

Sometimes the compiler can't infer the types of input parameters. You can specify the types explicitly as shown in the following example:

[!code-csharp[explicitly typed parameters](snippets/lambda-expressions/ExpressionAndStatementLambdas.cs#ExplicitlyTypedParameters)]

Input parameter types must be all explicit or all implicit; otherwise, a [CS0748](../../misc/cs0748.md) compiler error occurs.

Beginning with C# 9.0, you can use [discards](../../discards.md) to specify two or more input parameters of a lambda expression that aren't used in the expression:

> [!code-csharp[discard parameters](snippets/lambda-expressions/ExpressionAndStatementLambdas.cs#Discards)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/lambda-expressions/ExpressionAndStatementLambdas.cs" id="SnippetDiscards":::
```

> That feature may be useful when you use a lambda expression to [provide an event handler](../../programming-guide/events/how-to-subscribe-to-and-unsubscribe-from-events.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lambda discard parameters may be useful when you use a lambda expression to [provide an event handler](../../programming-guide/events/how-to-subscribe-to-and-unsubscribe-from-events.md).
```

For more information, see the [Anonymous function expressions](~/_csharplang/spec/expressions.md#anonymous-function-expressions) section of the [C# language specification](~/_csharplang/spec/introduction.md).

## Featured book chapter
For more information about lambda discard parameters, see the [feature proposal note](~/_csharplang/proposals/csharp-9.0/lambda-discard-parameters.md)

> [Delegates, Events, and Lambda Expressions](/previous-versions/visualstudio/visual-studio-2008/ff518994(v=orm.10)) in [C# 3.0 Cookbook, Third Edition: More than 250 solutions for C# 3.0 programmers](/previous-versions/visualstudio/visual-studio-2008/ff518995(v=orm.10))  

Author: This article has been updated considerably during the last years; I guess, it's very far from that original chapter now (which is for C# 3)

Reviewer 2: Yes, that's true.

Editorial tidbit: When I last updated Effective C# and More Effective C# (for versions 6 & 7, respectively), one of my reviewers made the point of commenting whenever I missed a reference to a "new" feature from C# 3 (the previous updates.)
